The term cyber crime is used to describe a unlawful activity in which computer or computing
devices such as smartphones, tablets, Personal Digital Assistants(PDAs), etc. which are stand
alone or a part of a network are used as a tool or/and target of criminal acitivity. It is often
commited by the people of destructive and criminal mindset either for revenge, greed or
adventure.

Insider Attack: An attack to the network or the computer system by some person with
authorized system access is known as insider attack. It is generally performed by
dissatisfied or unhappy inside employees or contractors. The motive of the insider
attack could be revenge or greed. It is comparitively easy for an insider to perform a
cyber attack as he is well aware of the policies, processes, IT architecture and
wealness of the security system. Moreover, the attacker have an access to the network.
Therefore it is comparatively easy for a insider attacker to steel sensitive information,
crash the network, etc. In most of the cases the reason for insider attack is when a
employee is fired or assigned new roles in an organization, and the role is not reflected
in the IT policies. This opens a vernability window for the attacker. The insider attack
could be prevented by planning and installing an Internal intrusion detection systems
(IDS) in the organization. 

External Attack: When the attacker is either hired by an insider or an external entity to
the organization, it is known as external attack. The organization which is a victim of
cyber attack not only faces financial loss but also the loss of reputation. Since the
attacker is external to the organization, so these attackers usually scan and gathering
information.An expreicend network/security administrator keeps regual eye on the log
generated by the firewalls as extertnal attacks can be traced out by carefully analysinig
these firewall logs. Also, Intrusion Detection Systems are installed to keep an eye on
external attacks.

Unstructured attacks: These attacks are generally performed by amatures who don‟t
have any predefined motives to perform the cyber attack. Usually these amatures try to
test a tool readily available over the internet on the network of a random company.

Structure Attack: These types of attacks are performed by highly skilled and
experienced people and the motives of these attacks are clear in their mind. They have
access to sophisticated tools and technologies to gain access to other networks without
being noticed by their Intrusion Detection Systems(IDSs). Moreover, these attacker
have the necessary expertise to develop or modify the existing tools to satisfy their
purpose. These types of attacks are usually performed by professional criminals, by a
country on other rival countries, politicians to damage the image of the rival person or
the country, terrorists, rival companies, etc.

Cyber crimes have turned out to be a low-investment, low-risk business with huge returns.
Now-a-days these structured crimes are performed are highly organized. There is a perfect
hierarchical organizational setup like formal organizations and some of them have reached a
level in technical capabilities at par with those of developed nation. They are targeting large
financial organizations, defence and nuclear establishments and they are also into online
drugs trading. The role of all the people in the hierarchy reamin changing and it is based on the oppourtinity.
If a hacker who have hacked sesetive data from an organization may use it for financially
exploiting the organisation himself. In case, the hacker himself have the technical expertise
for it, he will do it himself, otherwise he may find a buyer who is intrested in that data and
have the technical expertize. 

There are some cyber criminals offers on-demand and service. The person, organization or a
country may contact these cyber criminals for hacking an organization to gain access to some
sensetive data , or create massive denial-of –service attack on their compititors. Based on the
demand of the customer the hackers write malware, virus, etc to suit their requirements. An
organizaiton effected by a cyber attack, not only faces finincial loss, but its repuration is also
adversly affected, and the compitititor organization will definatly benefited by it.

Malware stands for “Malicious Software” and it is designed to gain access or installed into the
computer without the consent of the user. They perform unwanted tasks in the host computer
for the benefit of a third party. There is a full range of malwares which can seriously degrade
the performance of the host machine. There is a full range of malwares which are simply
written to distract/annoy the user, to the complex ones which captures the sensitive data from
the host machine and send it to remote servers. There are various types of malwares present in
the Internet. Some of the popular ones are:

Adware is a special type of malware which is used for forced advertising. They either redirect the
page to some advertising page or pop-up an additional page which promotes some product or
event. These adware are financially supported by the organizations whose products are
advertised.

Spyware is a special type of which is installed in the target computer with or without the user
permission and is designed to steal sensitive information from the target machine. Mostly it
gathers the browsing habits of the user and the send it to the remote server without the
knowledge of the owner of the computer. Most of the time they are downloaded in to the host
computer while downloading freeware i.e. free application programmes from the internet.
Spywares may be of various types; It can keeps track of the cookies of the host computer, it
can act as a keyloggers to sniff the banking passwords and sensitive information, etc.

There is some malicious software which are downloaded along with the free software offered
over the internet and installed in the host computer without the knowledge of the user. This
software modifies the browsers setting and redirect links to other unintentional sites.

A virus is a malicious code written to damage/harm the host computer by deleting or
appending a file, occupy memory space of the computer by replicating the copy of the code,
slow down the performance of the computer, format the host machine, etc. It can be spread
via email attachment, pen drives, digital images, e-greeting, audio or video clips, etc. A virus
may be present in a computer but it cannot activate itself without the human intervention.
Until and unless the executable file(.exe) is execute, a virus cannot be activated in the host
machine. 

They are a class of virus which can replicate themselves. They are different from the virus by
the fact that they does not require human intervention to travel over the network and spread
from the infected machine to the whole network. Worms can spread either through network,
using the loopholes of the Operating System or via email. The replication and spreading of the
worm over the network consumes the network resources like space and bandwidth and force
the network to choke. 

Trojan horse is a malicious code that is installed in the host machine by pretending to be
useful software. The user clicks on the link or download the file which pretends to be a useful
file or software from legitimate source. It not only damages the host computer by
manipulating the data but also it creates a backdoor in the host computer so that it could be
controlled by a remote computer. It can become a part of botnet(robot-network), a network of
computers which are infected by malicious code and controlled by central controller. The
computers of this network which are infected by malicious code are known as zombies.
Trojens neither infect the other computers in the network nor do they replicate.

Cyber stalking is an act of stalking, harassing or threatening someone using Internet/computer as a
medium. This is often done to defame a person and use email, social network, instant
messenger, web-posting, etc. as a using Internet as a medium as it offers anonymity. The
behaviour includes false accusations, threats, sexual exploitation to minors, monitoring, etc. 

Child Pornography is an act of possessing image or video of a minor (under 18), engaged in sexual conduct.

Forgery and Counterfeiting is a use of computer to forgery and counterfeiting is a document. With the advancement in
the hardware and the software, it is possible to produce counterfeit which matches the original
document to such an extent that it is not possible to judge the authenticity of the document
without expert judgement.

Software piracy is an illegal reproduction and distribution for personal use or business. It
comes under crime related to IPR infringement. Some of the other crimes under IPR
infringement are: download of songs, downloading movies, etc.

Cyber Terrorism is defined as the use of computer resources to intimidate or coerce government, the civilian
population or any segment thereof in furtherance of political or social objectives.

Phishing is a process of acquiring personal and sensitive information of an individual via email by
disguising as a trustworthy entity in an electronic communication. The purpose of phishing is
identity theft and the personal information like username, password, and credit card number
etc. may be used to steal money from user account. If a telephone is used as a medium for
identity theft, it is known as Vishing (voice phishing). Another form of phishing is Smishing,
in which sms is used to lure customers.

Computer Vandalism is an act of physical destroying computing resources using physical force or malicious
code.

Computer Hacking is a practice of modifying computer hardware and software to accomplish a goal outside the
creator‟s original purpose. The purpose of hacking a computer system may vary from simply
demonstrations of the technical ability, to sealing, modifying or destroying information for
social, economic or political reasons. Now the corporate are hiring hackers, a person who is
engaged in hacking computers, to intentionally hack the computer of an organization to find
and fix security vulnerabilities.

The spreading of an virus can cause business and financial loss to an organization. The loss
includes the cost of repairing the system, cost associated with the loss of business during
downtime and cost of loss of opportunity. The organization can sue the hacker, if found, for
the sum of more than or equivalent to the loss borne by the organization.

Sending of unsolicited and commercial bulk message over the internet is known as spamming.
An email can be classified as spam, if it meets following criteria:
a. Mass mailing:- the email is not targeted to one particular person but to a large number
of peoples.
b. Anonymity:- The real identify of the person not known
c. Unsolicited:- the email is neither expected nor requested for the recipient.
These spams not only irritate the recipients and overload the network but also waste the time
and occupy the valuable memory space of the mailbox. 

Cross Site Scripting is an activity which involves injecting a malicious client side script into a trusted website.
As soon as the browser executes the malicious script, the malicious script gets access to the
cookies and other sensitive information and sent to remote servers. Now this information can
be use to gain financial benefit or physical access to a system for personal interest.

There are many genuine websites who offers online auction over internet. Taking the
advantage of the reputation of these websites, some of the cyber criminals lure the customers
to online auction fraud schemes which often lead to either overpayment of the product or the
item is never delivered once the payment is made.

Cyber Squatting is an act of reserving the domain names of someone else‟s trademark with intent to sell it
afterwards to the organization who is the owner of the trademark at a higher price.

Logic Bombs are malicious code inserted into legitimate software. The malicious action is triggered
by some specific condition. If the conditions holds true in future, the malicious action begins
and based on the action defined in the malicious code, they either destroy the information
stored in the system or make system unusable.

The hacker gain access to a website of an organization and either blocks it or modify it to
serve political, economical or social interest. The recent examples of web jacking are some of
the websites of the educational institutes were hacked by Pakistani hackers and an animation
which contains Pakistani flags were flashed in the homepage of these websites. Another
example is Indian hackers hacked website of Pakistani railways and flashed Indian flag in the
homepage for several hours on the occasion of Independence Day of India in 2014.

Hacking the username and password of ISP of an individual and surfing the internet at his
cost is Internet Time Theft.

Denial of Service Attack is a cyber attack in which the network is chocked and often collapsed by flooding it with
useless traffic and thus preventing the legitimate network traffic.

Salami Attack is an attack which proceeds with small increments and final add up to lead to a major
attack. The increments are so small that they remain unnoticed. An example of salami attack
is gaining access to online banking of an individual and withdrawing amount in such a small
amounts that it remains unnoticed by the owner. Often there is default trigger set in the
banking website and transactions below say, Rs. 1000 withdrawal are not reported to the
owner of the account. Withdrawing amount of Rs. 1000 over a period of time will lead to total
withdrawal of a large sum.

Data Diddling is a practice of changing the data before its entry into the computer system. Often, the
original data is retained after the execution on the data is done. For example, DA or the basic
salary of the person is changed in the payroll data of an individual for pay calculation. Once
the salary is calculated and transferred to his account, the total salary is replaced by his actual
salary in the report. 

Email Spoofing is a process of changing the header information of an e-mail so that its original source is not
identified and it appears to an individual at the receiving end that the email has been
originated from source other than the original source.
There are many cyber security techniques to combat the cyber security attacks. The next
section discusses some of the popular techniques to counter the cyber attacks.